h1. Readme

From jQuery-flipv:http://www.openstudio.fr/jQuery-flipv.html?lang=en
Accessed 11/23/2009

h1. Introduction

With CSS2, it isn’t possible to vertically display text. The only browser suggesting a
way is Internet Explorer, with its css attributes "filter" and "writing-mode". Example:

<pre><code>
.verticaltext {
  writing-mode: tb-rl;
  filter: flipv fliph;
}
</code></pre>

Vertical texts can be interesting, depending on the chosen design. For example, I use it
in the <a href="http://www.openstudio.fr/jQuery-virtual-tour.html">jQuery virtual tour
\[fr\]</a> to display the title without hiding the panoramic view.

The principle is to develop, using <a href="http://www.jquery.com/">jQuery</a>, another
implementation for the browsers which don’t recognize writing-mode, such as firefox,
opera, safari...

As jQuery is a non-intrusive technology, we are sure that the visitors will be able to
access the text. In case of a fail, it will be horizontally displayed.

The most intuitive solution is to use the <code><canvas></code> tag, created by Apple and
that is now recognized by all recent browsers: firefox, safari and opera.

IE doesn’t recognize this tag, so in this case, we will keep the display based on
<code>writing-mode</code> attribute.

A lack of the <code><canvas></code> tag, is that there is no native method to display
text. The <a href="http://www.netzgesta.de/dev/text/">cvi_text_lib.js</a> library from
netzgesta has to be used, that offer a method to write in the <code><canvas></code> tag,
only in Verdana.

h1. Use

Insert javascript calls in the <code><head></code> section:
<code><pre>
<script type="text/javascript" src="js/jquery.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="js/cvi_text_lib.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="js/jquery.flipv.js"></script>
</pre></code>

Simply add the "flipv" class into texts or titles you want to display verticaly.

example: <code><p class='flipv'>mon texte</p></code>

You can also insert an explicit call to flipv() method on any element in the page using a
jQuery selector.

example: <code>$('p').flipv();</code>

You don’t need to specify <code>filter</code> and <code>writing-mode</code> attributs for
IE; the plugin will do it.

You could define a width or an height for your text. In this case, give sizes for
horizontal display and the plugin will invert values automatically.

h1. Limits

* one line only
* Verdana font only

<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/licence_GPL">licence GPL</a>